\### \*\*2024 Spring\*\* - Mary W \### \*Assignment 4\* - Inventory Game
Link to game: https://marywdev.itch.io/overflow

\## \*\*Debrief\*\*

\*For this project, I ended up making a game where you have to find and
remove a specific item from your inventory, all while more and more
things are being added to it. My theme was Excess, which can be seen in
the constant addition of new items. The items in the game's inventory
can be rearranged. It does not have a dynamic size, because I thought
the theme called for a restricted size. However I do think I understand
how to program it, using ds_lists.To me, this game seems a bit more
polished than my previous projects, because of its tutorial/start menu
and a smaller amount of bugs (that I know of). The most helpful resource
this time was youtube, where I learned how to create an inventory with
rearrangeable items, as well as mouse controls for it. I originally
planned to make a much more complex game, involving puzzles solvable
with items and lots of art. I worked on this original project for a
while before realizing I would not be able to get it done on time, and
had to restart my game. Additionally, I had started my game late because
I misunderstood the timeline of the assignment. I did learn some useful
things when working on the original project, such as how to create a
scrolling inventory. A scrolling inventory is not present in my final
project, but the other inventory elements are. I ran into a lot of
issues when programming this game, and I couldn't find any help or
indication of the problem on the internet. I spent a long time trying to
work out small but prominent bugs. One of them was that the id numbers
of items added to the inventory were always decimals. It took me a while
to realize that that was the issue, and even more time to realize that I
had written random(n) rather than irandom(n). With the i, objects were
added to my game using only whole numbers within the range I wanted. I
was very exasperated to find out that all my problems were being caused
by a single missing letter! I would have liked to have added some more
refined art to the game, and possibly some narrative elements as well,
but I didn't have the time. For my next project, I will try to create a
more realistic scope for my game, continue trying to work on my time
management, and try to become more comfortable asking for help when I
need it.\*

\## \*\*Self Evaluation\*\*

\*\*Execution\*\* - 4

\*My theme, excess, can be seen in the constant addition of new items to
the inventory.\*

\*\*Scope\*\* - 3

\*I originally had a much more complex plan for the game, which I spent
a lot of time on and was not able to complete. Because of this, my final
product is not as finished as I would have liked.\*

\*\*Overall\*\* - Pass

\*My game followed my theme and fulfilled the project requirements.\*
