### **2024 Spring** - Angelina Xi
### *Assignment 1* - Clone Game
Link to game: (itch link)


## **Debrief**
I do think I am pretty happy with how the Kirby Clone project came out. With a very beginner-level understanding of coding, I was able to program the majority of player and enemy movement. Additionally, I have never programmed a side-scrolling platform game. Therefore, it was pretty challenging to understand jump movement and especially gravity. But with the resources from the professor, I was able to overcome that challenge pretty easily. What I am most proud of are all of Kirby’s animation and also enemy movement. Instead of Kirby being in the same stance while jumping, walking, and floating, I wanted it to be similar to the original game. While the animation for walking and ducking were easy, I found difficulty in floating and falling. But in the end, I was able to program both animations with a lot of revising and testing. As for enemy movement, I am proud that I was able to program all of their movements because there were various types: pacing, walking, jumping, and hopping. What took me the shortest amount of time was walking, obviously. What took me the longest amount of time was jumping. Because there was an interval where the enemy stayed on the ground and then jumped, it took me a while to figure out how to implement it. My solution, while not the most efficient, was to create multiplier timers and a boolean. 
In the end, I was not able to perfectly clone the original Kirby game. Some things that still need adjusting or implementing are the floaty-ness feeling, health and life bar, score system, and sucking enemies in. However, despite these major imperfections, I am still proud of what I accomplished. For the next project, I think I would repeat breaking actions down into simple logical equations since that was what helped me solve most of the problems, especially enemy jumping. What I would do differently would be focusing more on the character. In this project, Kirby could get stuck on ledges and walk off-bound, which can disturb the player’s game. Therefore, I would want to finetune it a lot more next time.
