### **2024 Spring** - Mary W 
### *Assignment 3* - Multiplayer Game 
Link to game: https://marywdev.itch.io/in-which-your-hands-will-fight-to-the-death

## **Debrief**

For this project, I made a multiplayer, QWOP-inspired fighting game
about your left and right hands fighting each other. A player gets a
point when the opponent is pushed off the platform, and the first to
three points wins. Players control their characters using the QWER and
UIOP keys on the keyboard, and the score is tracked through a global
variable. My favorite aspect of this project was experimenting with
Gamemaker's physics engine and learning more about it. I had never used
it before, and I was curious to see what I could make with it. The most
useful resources for me this time was the gamemaker documentation, which
I referenced many times when something confused me or wasn't working. I
also read many posts on the gamemaker forums for help, and tried to
search YouTube as well, although there weren't many up-to-date results
there. While making this project I initially had a lot of trouble
getting the physics to work, as I couldn't find any clear answers online
about how to make a ragdoll, so I had attempted to figure it out myself.
I spent a lot of my time using questionable methods with terrible
results before learning about gamemakers joint systems, which ended up
working better. There were still some issues with it, which were
difficult for me to figure out on my own. Next time, I will do more
research on gamemakers capabilities as well as asking for help if I need
it. I will also try to manage my time better, and work on getting basic
mechanics implemented before polishing other details. I had originally
intended for each finger to have two segments rather than one, which I
think would have made the game a bit more complex and fun. However, I
couldn't figure out how to make their joints work and had to scrap them,
leaving our fingers with just two segments, which was working correctly.
I was also unsure what the controls should be, as I wanted the player to
control the segments in both directions without it feeling clunky. In
the end, I decided for each player to use 4 keys, one for each segments
direction; this control scheme would have been questionable if I had
kept the 4 finger segments, using 8 keys each. Overall, I'm happy with
how the project turned out, but I would have liked the fingers to have 4
segments with more intuitive controls.

## **Self Evaluation**

**Execution** - 5

*My theme was hands, which are the main characters of the game and the
center of the small story.*

**Scope** - 5

*I knew I wanted to learn more about the game maker physics engine, and
the game ended up mostly how I had planned, with only one small physics
addition removed.*

**Overall** - Pass

*I created a multiplayer game that uses a global variable to track a
score, meeting the project requirements.*
