### **2024 Spring** - Luis L
### *Assignment 0* - Clone Game
Link to game: n/a


## **Debrief**
With this first project I have mixed feelings. I’m happy I got the game working in the first place and figuring things out that I would’ve needed a lot more reference for prior. That being said the game is admittedly very janky. First off, there is no ending, yet. Hitboxes are very weird and no matter how much I tuned the detection on Mario, or the enemies, or obstacles it seems like the balance I found currently is about as precise as I can get it. The player will get stuck in blocks but can jump right through them after being stuck in them. The smooth walking animations, and making Mario feel somewhat as he does in the real game is very satisfying and I’m glad it functions as well as it does. On the other hand, the camera is not behaving as I would like, I tried to make it where once the player progresses through the level they can’t go back like in the real game but it would just keep resetting the x value of the camera back to the start of the level, also the camera doesn’t feel focused on Mario even though it very much is. Mario remains in the bottom left corner of the screen rather than being in the center. I reduced how smooth the camera follow is to recreate the feeling of the original game too. Scoring, time progression, and coin collection is all included and shown in the UI. Goombas and koopas both give score and have sound effects and animations. The player can go to the underground section and collect coins but when they go back to the surface they’re back at the beginning of the level. I’m fairly certain this is a result of making the two sections different rooms. If I would have left them as separate entities but in the same room I could’ve recreated more of a teleport which might have worked out better. Lastly, the power up I’m very disheartened about. In a small isolated section I was able to make it function and having Mario gain more hit points and doing the growing animation, but when fully integrating it, it completely broke the game. Seemingly completely separated entities were being affected by grabbing the mushroom. First, the warp pipe that was playing the music of the above ground section would immediately crash the game upon grabbing the mushroom. After trying to bug fix that then seeing what would happen if I just deleted that line of code, the camera object would then proceed to crash the game. After that the goombas would no longer function. It was a domino effect that I simply could not figure out so for the time being I left the powerup out. I’m thinking I could tackle the issue in the future by having less spaghetti code but I think for the time being it’s not too terrible. Also, I’m wondering if more redundancies in my code would help. While I understand you’d want to make the code less complicated since there will be less things to break, I’m also wondering if having more checks on collisions for instance would offer a better way of running into objects without them getting caught on corners or stuck halfway through a block.

## **Self Evaluation**

